# Radiation induced modifications on structural and luminescence properties of LDPE- $\mathbf { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } { : } S m ^ { 3 + } }$ composites by γ-ray

Author names and affiliations:

Jing Zhang a,b, Abu Zayed Mohammad Saliqur Rahman a, Yuxiao Lib, Jing Yanga, Yaru Wu a,b, Daqing Yuan c, Xingzhong Cao a\*, Runsheng Yua, Baoyi Wanga

a Key Laboratory of Nuclear Radiation and Nuclear Energy Technology, Institute of   
High Energy Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, No. 19 Yuquan Lu, Beijing 100049,China   
b School of Physical Engineering, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001,China   
c China Institute of Atomic Energy, Beijing 102413,China

Corresponding author: Xingzhong Cao

# Acknowledgments

The authors are very grateful to the financial support by the National Natural Science Foundation （Grant Nos.91026006，11175191，91226103）and Chinese Academy of Sciences Fellowships for Young International Scientists under Grant No. 2012Y1JB0007.

Radiation induced modifications on structural and luminescence properties of LDPE- $\mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites by $\gamma$ -ray Jing Zhang a,b, Abu Zayed Mohammad Saliqur Rahman a, Yuxiao Lib, Jing Yanga, Yaru Wu a,b, Daqing Yuan c, Xingzhong Cao a\*, Runsheng Yua, Baoyi Wanga a Key Laboratory of Nuclear Radiation and Nuclear Energy Technology, Institute of High Energy Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences,No.19 Yuquan Lu, Beijing 1Ooo49,China b School of Physical Engineering, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 45ooO1, China c China Institute of Atomic Energy, Beijing 102413,China

# Abstract

A comparative study on the morphology, structure and luminescence modifications of LDPE- ${ \mathrm { . N a } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { S O } } _ { 4 } { : } { \mathrm { S m } } ^ { 3 + }$ composite induced by gamma irradiation was reported for the first time. The composites were irradiated with irradiation doses of 10, 3O,and 50 kGy in air at room temperature. Modifications on structural and luminescence properties of $\mathrm { L D P E { - } N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } { : } S m ^ { 3 + } }$ composites were investigated by using several analytical methods. The X-ray diffraction (XRD） patterns revealed that the cross-linking improved the crystallinity of the composites. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images illustrated the surface modifications of composites induced byirradiation. Results of positron annihilation lifetime spectroscopy (PALS) suggested that gamma irradiation affected the free volumes concentrations in the samples. The photoluminescence (PL） spectra of non-irradiated and irradiated composites consisted of four main peaks at 563, 598, 644 and $7 0 6 \mathrm { n m }$ which could be assigned to the ${ ^ 4 } \mathrm { G } _ { 5 / 2 }  { ^ 6 } \mathrm { H } _ { J } ( J = 5 / 2$ ，7/2,9/2 and 11/2, respectively) transitions within the $4 f ^ { 5 }$ electronic configuration of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ . Meanwhile, we observed an additional peak at about $6 8 6 ~ \mathrm { { \ n m } }$ in the irradiated composites,owing to the conversion of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + } {  } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ . Concentrations of the $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ centers linearly increased with gamma irradiation doses,which partly accounted for the degradation of PL intensity of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ peaks.

XRD—X-ray diffraction   
SEM—Scanning electron microscope   
PALS—positron annihilation lifetime spectroscopy   
PL—photoluminescence   
CIAE—China Institute of Atomic Energy

# 1. Introduction

Polymer-phosphors composite materials have been considered as a kind of new functional material with the potential applications in light-converting optical devices [1],light-emitting diodes [2], light conversion agricultural films and other outdoor devices. This kind of composite materials have been widely investigated [3-6] because they combine the advantages of both phosphor and polymer into systems, such as the chemical stability and superior processing property from the polymers as well as low-cost and unique luminescent properties from phosphors.

In our previous paper, Sm-doped LDPE- ${ \bf \cdot N a } _ { 2 } { \bf S O } _ { 4 }$ composite materials were successfully synthesized and their morphology, structure and luminescence properties were investigated [7].However, the service lifetime and performance of many functional composites are highly influenced after processing. It is well known that irradiation of gamma ray may cause the degradation of materials and change the chemical, mechanical and optical properties of materials,which have attracted much attention [8-12]. The polymer absorbed the energy generated by irradiated of gamma ray and cross-linking or chain scission was produced owing to active species such as radicals. The morphology, chemical structure of the polymer and irradiation dose can determine whether the cross-linking or chain scission is the dominating effect of the irradiation. The luminescence reduction mechanism of the samarium ions in the irradiated ${ \mathrm { N a } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { S O } } _ { 4 } { : } { \mathrm { S m } }$ phosphors had been investigated in our previous letter [13]. However, after incorporating the phosphor particles into the LDPE polymer matrix, luminescence properties of composites may be related to the structure of free volume and crystalline of composites.

Although much work has been done on the new kind of functional materials, it is necessary to investigate the modifications on structural and luminescence properties of $_ { \mathrm { L D P E - N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } : S m ^ { 3 + } } }$ composite material induced by gamma irradiation. In this work，positron annihilation lifetime spectroscopy has been used to study gamma irradiation effect on the structure information of composites,which might deep our understanding the mechanism of irradiation effects.

# 2. Experimental

# 2.1 Materials

High purity powders $\mathrm { N a } _ { 2 } \mathrm { S O } _ { 4 }$ $( 9 9 . 9 9 \% )$ and $\mathrm { S m F } _ { 3 }$ （2 $( 9 9 . 9 9 \% )$ ） were used as the staring materials to prepare the ${ \mathrm { N a } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { S O } } _ { 4 } { : } { \mathrm { S m } } ^ { 3 + }$ phosphor using the melt-mixing method. The LDPE was obtained from Goodfellow (Cambridge,UK). It has a density of 0.922 $\mathrm { g c m } ^ { - 3 }$ and a melting point of $1 1 0 \mathrm { ~ } ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C }$ ：

# 2.2 Sample preparation

The details of preparation of ${ \mathrm { N a } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { S O } } _ { 4 } { : } { \mathrm { S m } } ^ { 3 + }$ phosphor had already been reported elsewhere [7]. Synthesized samples were powdered again before using them. LDPE- $2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } ; S }$ $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites were produced by melt-mixing the synthesized ${ \mathrm { N a } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { S O } } _ { 4 } { : } { \mathrm { S m } } ^ { 3 + }$ phosphor powders into LDPE polymer with mass ratio $20 \%$ using a Brabender mixer. The mixing temperature was $1 5 0 \mathrm { ~ } ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C }$ and screw speed was kept at $6 0 ~ \mathrm { r p m }$ for $2 0 ~ \mathrm { m i n }$ . The uniformly mixed composites were compressed to slabs at 30 MPa using a curing press at $1 5 0 \mathrm { ~ } ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C }$ . The average thickness was $0 . 7 { \pm } 0 . 0 5 \ \mathrm { m m }$ To prevent contact with air and moisture, all prepared composites were stored in vacuum desiccators.

2.3 Gamma irradiation

The LDPE and composites plates,with a size of $1 0 { \times } 1 0 ~ \mathrm { m m } ^ { 2 }$ ， were irradiated by a （204号 $^ { 6 0 } { \bf C } { \bf o }$ Gamma cell at the China Institute of Atomic Energy (CIAE) in air at room temperature. The samples were sealed into plastic vessels and irradiated with irradiation dose of 10,30,and $5 0 \mathrm { k G y }$ at a dose rate of $5 . 0 \mathrm { k G y / h }$ . The non-irradiated LDPE and composite served as the baseline for performance measurements.

# 2.4 Measurement

2.4.1X-ray diffraction and Scanning electron microscope measurements

X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the samples were obtained using a D8 X-ray diffractometer, with $\mathrm { C u K a } _ { 1 } = 0 . 1 5 4 1 \ \mathrm { n m }$ radiation operated at $4 0 \mathrm { k V }$ and $4 0 ~ \mathrm { m A }$ ，at a scan step of $0 . 0 2 ^ { \circ }$ in 20 from $1 0 ^ { \circ }$ to $7 0 ^ { \circ }$ . MDI Jade Version 6.5 software was applied to calculate the crystallinity index,which was determined by comparing the areas under crystalline peaks and the amorphous curve [14]. The surface morphologies of the non-irradiated and irradiated samples were observed using a scanning electron microscope (SEM, Zeiss SUPRA 55） with an accelerating voltage of $1 0 \mathrm { \ k V . }$ The surfaces of the samples were pre-coated with 4 nm Pt layer in a high vacuum sputter coater (Leica EM SCD 50O) to reduce charging before recording the SEM micrographs.

# 2.4.2 Positron annihilation lifetime spectroscopy (PALS) measurement

From various study it is clear that the free volume change within the polymer greatly affects the structural and optical properties of materials [15]. Positron annihilation lifetime measurements were carried out in this work with a fast-slow coincidence ORTEC system with a time resolution of 197 ps (full width at half-maximum for the $^ { 6 0 } { \bf C } { \bf o }$ prompt $\gamma$ -rays). The two identical pieces of samples were placed on either side of the $^ { 2 2 } \mathrm { { N a } }$ positron source, and then this sample-source-sample sandwich was placed between the two detectors to acquire the lifetime spectra. A total of $2 \times 1 0 ^ { 6 }$ counts were accumulated for each spectrum to reduce the statistical error in the calculation of lifetimes. The positron annihilation spectra were de-convoluted using the LT-9 software. LT-9 is one of the most popular software for positron lifetime spectra analysis [16]. It de-convolutes the experimental curve from the instruments functions to set apart the physical meaning information,i.e. positron annihilation lifetime and intensity.

# 2.4.3 Photoluminescence spectra measurement

The PE and PL spectra of the composite materials were measured by using a totally computer-controlled compact system (Horiba Fluorolog spectrofluorometer） at room temperature. A high band-pass glass filter was set in front of the sample to eliminate the influence of scattered excitation light. Samples were excited at $4 0 2 \ \mathrm { n m }$ and emission spectra were observed in the wavelength range of $5 4 0 – 7 5 0 \ \mathrm { n m }$ . Slit widths were fixed at $2 \mathrm { n m }$ for the excitation and emission entrance.

# 3. Results and discussion

In order to investigate the effects of $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation on the crystalline structural and relative crystallinity of the LDPE material, XRD analysis was performed. From the XRD patterns shown in the Fig.1,it is apparent that non-irradiated as well as irradiated LDPE present three main crystalline peaks at 20 of $2 1 . 6 ^ { \circ }$ ， $2 4 . 0 ^ { \circ }$ and $3 6 . 3 ^ { \circ }$ which corresponding to the (1 1 O), (2 0 O),and (0 2 O) lattice planes of LDPE [7]. No obvious position changes can be observed in the XRD patterns after $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation, which indicates that $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation at least up to $5 0 ~ \mathrm { { \ k G y } }$ has no significant influence on the lattice parameters of pure LDPE. However, XRD results show that the crystallinity of LDPE increases with the increment of gamma irradiation dose, as shown in Fig.1. This phenomenon may prove that the $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation mainly causes cross-linking,which takes place in the amorphous region of the LDPE material [17].

Fig.2 demonstrates the XRD patterns for LDPE- $- 2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites irradiated with different doses.The expected diffraction peaks which characterize the $\mathrm { N a } _ { 2 } \mathrm { S O } _ { 4 }$ crystal (PDF data no.24-1132) in LDPE- $2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composite [7] are observed in both non-irradiated and irradiated composites. With the increasement of radiation doses in range from O kGy to $5 0 \mathrm { k G y }$ ,no significant new peaks are observed. However, the intensity of diffraction peaks varies with the irradiation dose. The change in the intensity of these peaks might be attributed to change in crystalline quality of the composites as a result of gamma irradiation. As shown by XRD results in Fig.2, the crystallinity of composites increases with the increasing radiation dose in range $( 0 { - } 3 0 \mathrm { k G y } )$ , and then decreases slightly at $5 0 \mathrm { k G y }$ .The reduction in crystallinity of thecompositemaybeascribedtochainscissionat50kGy. LDPE- $- 2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composite has lower crystallinity than the LDPE,which can be explained by that phosphor particles have a strong interaction with LDPE, immobilizing the LDPE chains, giving rise to fewer and smaller crystallites [6].

Fig.3 shows the SEM micrographs for LDPE and LDPE- $- 2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites irradiated with different doses. It can be seen from the Fig.3 (a-d) that the surfaces of both non-irradiated and irradiated LDPE are smooth with no observable discontinuous points. The result indicates that $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation at least up to $5 0 \mathrm { k G y }$ has no significant influence on the surface micrographs of LDPE. The SEM images of

L $\mathrm { { D P E { - } 2 0 \% N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } ; S m ^ { 3 + } } }$ composites present the different morphology, in which the surfaces are rougher because of visible ${ \mathrm { N a } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { S O } } _ { 4 } { : } { \mathrm { S m } } ^ { 3 + }$ phosphor particles,as shown in Fig.3 (e-h). The $\mathrm { N a } _ { 2 } \mathrm { S O } _ { 4 } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ phosphor particles are dispersed throughout the polymer matrix with some agglomeration under different irradiation doses.Fig.3 (e) displays that phosphors particles mainly disperse on the surface of polymer matrix in the non-irradiated LDPE- $2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { \cdot } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites. The SEM micrographs of irradiated composites show that the phosphor particles gradually enter into the polymer networks,which are formed by gamma-irradiation. It may be reasonable to assume that gamma-irradiation leads to the generation of free radicals,and then the free radicals reintegrate to form the polymer networks.

The PALS technique is used to study the size and concentration of free volume cavities in the irradiated pure LDPE and LDPE- $2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites. The obtained positron lifetime spectra are resolved into three components using the LT-9 software. The third lifetime $( \tau _ { 3 } )$ with relative intensity $\left( I _ { 3 } \right)$ are due to the pick-off annihilations of orthopositronium in the free volume sites,which exist mainly in the amorphous regions of the polymer matrix. It has been found that $\tau _ { 3 }$ is proportional to the size of the free volumes and $I _ { 3 }$ is proportional to the number of free volumes in polymer. Based on free volume model, Nakanishi et al.[18] have provided the relation between the free volume hole radius $( R )$ and orthopositronium lifetime $\tau _ { 3 }$ （204号 using the following relation

$$
\tau _ { 3 } = \frac { 1 } { \lambda _ { 3 } } = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \biggl [ 1 { - } \frac { R } { R _ { 0 } } { + } \frac { 1 } { 2 \pi } \mathrm { s i n } ( \frac { 2 \pi R } { R _ { 0 } } ) \biggr ] ^ { - 1 }
$$

where $R _ { 0 } = R + \Delta R$ ， $\Delta R$ represents the fitted empirical electron layer thickness, which is equal to 1.66 angstrom. $\tau _ { 3 }$ and $R$ are expressed in ns and angstrom,

respectively. The free volume radius $R$ has been estimated from the above equation using the values of $\tau _ { 3 }$ and $\Delta R$ . For spherical cavities, the average sizes of the free volume cavities $( V _ { f } )$ are calculated using the following equation

$$
V _ { f } = \frac { 4 \pi R ^ { 3 } } { 3 }
$$

the total free volume fraction $( F _ { \nu } )$ is proportional to the product $V _ { f } I _ { 3 }$ and can be expressed as

$$
F _ { _ \nu } = \mathrm { c } V _ { _ { f } } I _ { _ 3 }
$$

where c is a constant value,which is defined to 1O in this work.

The orthopositronium lifetimes, intensities and corresponding free volume fractions measured in the pure LDPE irradiated with different doses are shown in Table.1. With the increasing of irradiation dose,the o-Ps lifetime $\tau _ { 3 }$ remains essentially unchanged, the o-Ps intensity $I _ { 3 }$ and free volume fraction $F _ { \nu }$ decrease gradually. The reduction of both $I _ { 3 }$ and $F _ { \nu }$ is corresponding to the reduction of free volume concentration, which seems to fit quite well with the interpretation based on the process of cross-linking [19,2O]. The decrease of free volume fraction $F _ { \nu }$ is in accordance with the increase of crystallinity, as in Fig.1.

Table.2 reveals the orthopositronium lifetimes, intensities and corresponding free volume fractions of $\mathrm { L D P E { - } 2 0 \% N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } { : } S m ^ { 3 + } }$ composites irradiated with different doses.As shown by positron annihilation lifetime results,with the increasement of gamma irradiation dose, the free volume fraction decreases with free volume size shrinking at the same time. It is probably attributed to that irradiation-induced cross-linking，which reduces the low-density area of the structure. We can also consider that the phosphors particles are well incorporated into the LDPE polymer network,which leads to the reduction of the free volume size. This phenomenon is fully consistent with earlier SEM observations.

Optical properties of the matter can be greatly modified by use of irradiation techniques. Samarium-doped materials show relatively stable change in the oxidation state of $\mathrm { { { S m } } }$ -ions after exposure to irradiation [13, 21]. The PE and PL spectra of the I $\mathrm { \Delta { . D P E { - } 2 0 \% N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } S m ^ { 3 + } }$ composites irradiated with different doses are shown in Fig.4. The PE spectra of as-synthesized and $\gamma$ -ray-irradiated composites monitored at

644 nm show five sharp $f { - } f$ transition lines，which could be ascribed to the charge-transfer of $^ 6 \mathrm { H } _ { 5 / 2 }  { } ^ { 4 } \mathrm { H } _ { 9 / 2 }$ $( 3 4 5 ~ \mathrm { n m } )$ )， $^ 6 \mathrm { H } _ { 5 / 2 }  ^ { 4 } \mathrm { D } _ { 3 / 2 }$ ( $3 6 2 ~ \mathrm { n m } )$ ， ${ } ^ { 6 } \mathrm { H } _ { 5 / 2 }  { } ^ { 6 } \mathrm { P } _ { 7 / 2 }$ (375 nm), $^ 6 \mathrm { { H } } _ { 5 / 2 }  { ^ 4 \mathrm { { L } } 1 3 / 2 }$ （ $4 0 2 ~ \mathrm { n m }$ ， strongest） and ${ } ^ { 6 } \mathrm { H } _ { 5 / 2 }  { } ^ { 4 } \mathrm { P } _ { 5 / 2 }$ 0 $\mathrm { 4 1 6 ~ n m } )$ ，respectively [22]. These peaks have no shift with increase in the irradiation doses up to $5 0 \mathrm { k G y }$ and their intensities decrease. The PL spectra of all samples obtained under $4 0 2 \ \mathrm { n m }$ excitation, consist of four main peaks at 563, 598,644 and $7 0 6 ~ \mathrm { n m }$ ，which can be associated to the transitions of ${ ^ 4 } \mathrm { G } _ { 5 / 2 }  { ^ 6 } \mathrm { H } _ { J }$ $\scriptstyle ( J = 5 / 2$ , 7/2, 9/2 and 11/2, respectively) within the $4 f ^ { 5 }$ electronic configuration of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ . The PL intensity of these $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ peaks decreases with iradiation doses. Meanwhile,we can see an additional band at approximately $6 8 6 \mathrm { n m }$ from the irradiated composite material. The emission band is associated to the （20 ${ } ^ { 5 } \mathrm { D } _ { 0 }  { } ^ { 7 } \mathrm { F } _ { 0 }$ transition within $4 f ^ { 6 }$ electronic configuration of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ . It is clear that gamma irradiation induces creation of the $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ in LDPE- $2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites.

Fig. 5 shows the relative PL intensities due to $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ and $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ of $\gamma$ -ray-irradiated composites. Non-irradiated LDPE- $- 2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composite does not have any $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ ions, as can be seen from Fig.4. Exposure to $\gamma$ -irradiation, the $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ band begins to appear and its $\mathrm { P L }$ intensity almost linearly increases,whereas the intensity of the $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ linely decreases with the increasing of irradiation dose. This feature is mainly ascribed to the conversion from $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ to $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ in LDPE- $- 2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites. The mechanism can be well explained by that in $\mathrm { N a } _ { 2 } \mathrm { S O } _ { 4 }$ matrix with $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation, divalent oxygen anion is changed to monovalent anion by releasing an electron, which will be captured by $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ centers [13]. On the other hand, the reduction of the amount of free volume available caused by gamma irradiation, which restricts the mobility of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ ， can also lead to an increase in emission intensity of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ band [15]. The decrease of luminescence intensity of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ peaks caused by $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation may affect the PL efficiency of composites. No luminescence of LDPE was detected under the same experimental conditions.

# 4. Conclusion

The modifications on morphology， structure and luminescence properties of LDPE- $- 2 0 \% \mathrm { N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } } { : } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ composites induced by gamma irradiation were studied by means of SEM，XRD，PALS and PE，PL spectra. XRD results indicate the crystallinity of samples increases with the increasing irradiation doses. It can be considered that low-dose $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation mainly causes the cross-linking of LDPE polymer matrix. The PL spectra show that irradiation induces the conversion of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + } {  } \mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ in $\mathrm { L D P E { - } 2 0 \% N a _ { 2 } S O _ { 4 } { : } S m ^ { 3 + } }$ composite material. Concentrations of the $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ centers linearly increase with irradiation doses. The reduction of luminescence intensity of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 3 + }$ peaks caused by $\gamma$ -ray-irradiation may reduce the PL efficiency of composites. However, the creation of $\mathrm { S m } ^ { 2 + }$ in the irradiated composites may have potential for use in some radiation detection system and other optical devices.

# References

[1] R. Pogreb, B. Finkelshtein, Y. Shmukler, A. Musina, O. Popov, O. Stanevsky, S. Yitzchaik,A. Gladkikh,A. Shulzinger, V. Streltsov, Polym Advan Technol,15 (2004) 414-418.   
[2] Z.Wang, I.D.W. Samuel, J. Lumin, 111 (2005) 199-203.   
[3] S.B. Mishra, A.K. Mishra, N. Revaprasadu, K.T. Hillie, W.J.v. Steyn, E. Coetsee, H.C. Swart, J. Appl. Polym. Sci., 112 (2009) 3347-3354.   
[4] Y. Imai, R. Momoda, C.-N. Xu, Mater. Let., 61 (2007) 4124-4127.   
[5] D.B. Bem, H.C. Swart, A.S. Luyt, F.B. Dejene, J. Appl. Polym. Sci., 121 (2011) 243-252.   
[6] D.B. Bem, A.S. Luyt, F.B. Dejene, J.R. Botha, H.C. Swart, Physica B: Cond. Mat., 404 (2009) 4504-4508.   
[7] J. Zhang, A.Z.M.S. Rahman, Y. Li, J. Yang, B. Zhao,E. Lu, P. Zhang, X. Cao, R. Yu, B. Wang, Opt. Mater., 36 (2013) 471-475.   
[8] A. Castaneda-Facio, R. Benavides,M.E. Martinez-Pardo, Radiat. Phys. Chem., 97 (2014) 75-80.   
[9] M. Shafiq,T. Yasin, Radiat. Phys. Chem.,81 (2012) 52-56.   
[10]A.A. Moez， S.S. Aly， Y.H. Elshaer， Spectrochim. Acta. A. Mol. Biomol.Spectrosc.,93 (2012) 203-207.   
[11] M. Madani, Cur Appl. Phys., 11 (2011) 70-76. [12] Z.Holik,M. Danek， M. Manas,J. Cerny， Proc.13th WSEAS International Conference on Automatic Control, Modelling & Simulation 2011, 222-225.   
[13] A.Z.M.S. Rahman, X. Cao,L. Wei, B. Wang,R. Yu, Z. Chen, G. An, A. Sidike, Appl. Phys. A., 111 (2012) 587-591.   
[14] S.a. Borysiak, J.Garbarczyk,Fibres.Text.East.Eur.,11(2003) 104-106. [15] V. Ravindrachary, S.P. Nayak, D. Dutta, P. Puja, Polym. Degrad. Stabil, 96 (2011) 1676-1686.   
[16] J. Kansy, D. Giebel, J. Phys.: Conference Series, 265 (2011).   
[17] K.A. Murray, J.E. Kennedy, B. McEvoy, O. Vrain, D. Ryan, R. Cowman, C.L. Higginbotham, Int. J.Mater. Sci., 3 (2013).   
[18] H. Nakanishi, Y. Jean,Macromol., 24(1991) 6618-6621.   
[19]R. Yu, T. Suzuki, N. Djourelov, Y. Ito, K. Kondo, Radiat. Phys. Chem., 75 (2006) 247-252.   
[20] I.Al-Qaradawi, D. Britton,E. Abdel-Hady, D. Abdulmalik,M. Al-Shobaki, E. Minani, Radiat. Phys. Chem., 68 (2003) 457-461.   
[21] D. Tonchev, E. Muzar, G. Okada, I. Kostova, Z. Stoeva, G. Patronov, B. Morrell, S. Kasap, J. U.Chem.Tech. Metal., 47 (2012) 439-448.   
[22] X.Lin, X. Qiao, X. Fan, Solid State Sci., 13 (2011) 579-583.