Silurian-Devonian sub-parallel ridge-trench interaction in Western Junggar and North-Central Tianshan in NW China: Alternative genesis of archipelagic architecture Ji'en Zhang1，Yichao Chen²，Wenjiao Xiaol， John Wakabayashi³，Brian F. Windley4, Shuaihua Song1,², and Jiyuan Yin5   
1 State Key Laboratory ofLithospheric Evolution, Institute of Geology and Geophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100029 China   
2 University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049 China   
3 Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, California State University, Fresno, CA 93740 USA   
4 Department of Geology, University of Leicester, Leicester, LEl 7RH, United Kingdom 5 Institute of Geology, Chinese Academy of Geological Sciences, Beijing 10oo37, China

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

# ABSTRACT

Western Junggar and North-Central Tianshan in NW China comprise a double magmatic belt, which evolved as a result of 446-380 Ma SSZ-type gabbro-basaltandesite-diorite-granite-rhyolite magmatism that intruded a 504-446 Ma accretionary complex in SW Junggar and coeval magmatic arc in Central Tianshan. This orogenic framework is interpreted as a product of sub-parallel ridge-trench interaction, which generated the double magmatic belt together with adakitic intrusions in the older accretionary complex. In this model, a buoyant subducted ridge stalled and separated the double magmatic belts,resulting in the opening of a new 414-325 Ma intra-arc ocean,which is represented by Nb-depleted OIB- and MORB-type ophiolites. Mafic rocks generated by sea floor spreading in the modern Gulf of California record a similar evolution and chemistry. This new ocean split the northern accretionary complex along Mt. Xiemisitai-Barleik-Mayile line,leading to deposition of Devonian shallow marineterrestrial sediments and cessation of magmatism at 380-349 Ma; this evolution also resembles that of the late Cenozoic passive margins of Baja California. Subsequent removal of the new ocean and its ridge-subduction gave rise to an archipelagic framework in the Late Paleozoic.A worldwide analysis of published examples of subparallel ridge-trench interaction indicates that a ridge jump can lead to multiple episodes of subduction, which could occur long before terminal ocean closure.

# INTRODUCTION

A spreading ridge can interact with a trench at a range of convergence angles (Sisson et al., 2003). Sub-paralel subduction can generate a short-lived magmatic belt in a forearc seting, adjacent to a magmatic arc,comparable to relations in Eocene Alaska, modern western California and the Chile triple junction (Sisson et al., 2003); we term these synchronous sub-parallel magmatic belts as “double magmatic belts”. Stalling ofthe subduction of a buoyant ridge (van Wijk et al., 2001) rifts the upper plate to develop a passive continental margin, and then forms new oceanic crust above upwelling sub-ridge asthenosphere, separating the two magmatic belts, as has taken place in Baja California and the Gulf of California (Michaud et al., 2O06). Such a plate boundary configuration can evolve further into an archipelagic architecture with continued oceanic spreading and subduction.   
The western Altaids (Fig. la), one of the world's classic orogens, was generated by subduction of the western segment of the Paleo-Asian Ocean (Xiao et al., 2015). This orogen evolved along a major subduction zone with local archipelagic configurations, which generally formed via forearc and backarc spreading with one magmatic belt (Windley et al., 2007; Xiao et al.， 2015). However, existing models cannot explain the 446-380 Ma double magmatic belt, between which developed 414- 325 Ma oceanic crust developed in SW Junggar and Chinese North-Central Tianshan, an eastern extension of the Yili block (Fig. 1b). This complex configuration requires an alternative tectonomagmatic model.   
This paper will present a new tectonic model for the evolution of SW Junggar and

North-Central Tianshan that includes mid-Paleozoic sub-parallel ridge-subduction leading to a Late Paleozoic archipelago configuration in the western Altaids.

TECTONIC UNITS   
Western Junggar is divisible into SW Junggar and NW Junggar units along a boundary north of the Tacheng basin-Mt. Xiemisitai-Hongguleleng (Fig. 1b). In north and west SW Junggar are 472-531 Ma OIB- and MORB-type ophiolites, and 379-414 Ma OIB- and MORB-type ophiolites depleted in Nb crop out in the Baijiantan area and along the Darbut Fault there are (Figs.1b, 2a) (Zhang et al., 2011; Zhang et al.,2018). In the Mt. Xiemisitai-Mayile area in SW Junggar a 380-446 Ma SSZ-type gabbrobasalt-andesite-diorite-granite-rhyolite intrudesan Early Paleozoic accretionary complex (Chen et al., 2010; Yin et al., 2017). 300-349 Ma magmatism is widespread to north and south of the Late Paleozoic accretionary complex (Figs. 1b, 2a). NW Junggar includes Late Paleozoic Saur arc rocks， and an accretionary complex with Carboniferous turbidites juxtaposed with Ordovician Kujibai ophiolite (Figs. 1b, 2d)(Chen et al., 2017).   
The Central Tianshan exposes Precambrian basement, a long-lived 300-476.5 Ma magmatic belt, and Silurian-Carboniferous mylonite, gneiss and amphibolites (Figs. 1b, 2e) (Wang et al., 2012). In the North Tianshan, situated between the Central Tianshan and SW Junggar, an accretionary complex consists of Carboniferous turbidites and 325- 386 Ma OIB- and MORB-type ophiolites with depleted Nb (Figs. 1b, 2e) (Xu et al., 2006).

# METHODOLOGY

To exclusively constrain orogenic processes of a short-lived archipelagic architecture with dismembered accretionary complex and paired igneous arc is generally difficult, because many ways can evolve into this framework.In order to solve this issue, we firstly remove complicated younger orognic units and afiliate to an older episode at which just has one accretionary complex and a contemporaneous arc to constitute a subduction zone; then linking this subduction zone to evolving spatial relationships of following associated subduction episodes. It is noteworthy that deduced results of each orogenic stage should match the facts and data collected from field work and indoor analysis.

# EARLYPALEOZOICSUBDUCTIONSYSTEM

Li et al. (2O06) proposed that the North-Central Tianshan and SW Junggar in China   
(separated by the Aibihu Fault) evolved independently (Fig. 1b), but paleomagnetic   
data show that the SW Junggar underwent $3 5 ^ { \circ }$ counterclockwise post-Permian rotation   
(Fig. 1b)(Choulet et al., 2011) suggesting that it was previously aligned parallel with   
the North-Central Tianshan. In SW Junggar a 479-446 Ma accretionary complex, containing 458-504 Ma   
blueschist and Ordovician-Silurian turbidites, lacks a coeval island arc.In the Central   
Tianshan a 476.5-439 Ma continental arc lacks a paired accretionary complex (Fig. 1b). Moreover, SW Junggar and Central Tianshan were in contact by the Early-Middle   
Paleozoic,based on the following.(1) Quartzitic schist from Laba River at southern   
end of SW Junggar (Fig.1b and DR2) and at Wenquan in the Central Tianshan (across   
the Aibihu Fault) share similar clastic components (Fig. 1b). (2） Silurian-Devonian

strata from SW Junggar have detrital zircon age peaks at 380-500, 600, 900-1000,1500- 1700, 2400-2500 Ma similar to those in the Central Tianshan (Figs.1b, 2b,f,DR3a-b), and (3) contain Precambrian and 446-479 Ma clasts, the sources of which are absent in SW Junggar (Figs. 2a, b, e), indicating their provenance from the Central Tianshan. Accordingly, the evidence suggests that the SW Junggar accretionary complex and Central Tianshan arc constitute a 476.5-446 Ma trench-arc system (Fig. 3a).

# MIDDLE PALEOZOIC SUB-PARALLEL RIDGE-TRENCH INTERACTION

In the mid-Paleozoic continuous evolving subduction generated 380-446 Ma magmatic rocks that intruded the Early Paleozoic accretionary complex in SW Junggar (Chen et al.， 2O1O) and a coeval magmatic arc in the Central Tianshan, forming a double-magmatic belt (Fig. 2). We interpret the magmatic rocks that intrude the accretionary complex (including adakitic granodiorites with positive $\operatorname { \varepsilon } _ { \mathrm { N d } } ( t ) )$ in the Mt. Xiemisitai area (Fig. 3b) (Yin et al., 2017),as products of a slab window beneath SW Junggar, caused by (a) a subducted spreading ridge or (b) a slab tear in old subduction lithosphere (Calmus et al., 2011). Between the double magmatic belts, younger 325- 414 Ma MORB-type ophiolites with depleted Nb occur in SW Junggar and Chinese North Tianshan，which may have developed in(c） a rift basin above a buoyant subducting slab or in (d) a back-arc/forearc basin. If the MORB-type ophiolites developed in a sizable back-arc or forearc basin (model d), a coeval 349-380 Ma trench and island arc should be located in SW Junggar, in contrast to the actual field relationship (Fig. 1b).

The presence of 325-414 Ma ophiolites in the Late Paleozoic SW Junggar and

because they are younger than the time of the double magmatic belts (446-414 Ma). Therefore, we prefer hypothesis (a, c) that a Middle Paleozoic ridge parallel to a trench subducted beneath SW Junggar (Fig. 3c), because it agrees best with the field relationships and has modern analogues. In our model,a buoyant subducted ridge stalled resulting in rifting of the upper plate and opening of a new SW Junggar/Chinese North Tianshan ocean, similar to the extant Gulf of California (Michaud et al., 2006). The trench migrated to the southern margin of this ocean in the Tianshan (Fig. 3c), enabling 414-386 Ma oceanic crust in SW Junggar to be accreted before the 386-325 Ma ophiolites in the Chinese North Tianshan (Figs.1b, 2a, e). This resulted in the Central Tianshan continental arc being generated by a subduction system analogous to those in modern Alaska and Chile （Thorkelson et al.，2011） and 357-375 Ma deformation and metamorphism (Fig. 3c). The subduction of the spreading ridge may have resulted in magmatic interaction with an overlying metasomatized mantle wedge or it may have promoted partial melting of this mantle wedge to generate MORB-type oceanic crust with depleted Nb (Zhang et al., 2011); this would be similar to mafic rocks in the Gulf of California (Calmus et al., 2011).   
Devonian shallow marine-terrestrial sediments with corals, brachiopods, sea lilies, and plants (Gong and Zong, 2O15) were deposited on the northern margin of the Early Paleozoic accretionary complexes along the Mt. Xiemisitai-Barleik-Mayile line (Fig. 1b),and magmatism ceased from 380 to 349 Ma (Liu et al.,2017); these sedimentarykinematic relations are similar to those in the young passive continental margin above

aremnant slab in Baja California (Paulssen and de Vos， 2O17). Moreover, Carboniferous sandstones in SW Junggar contain 349-380 Ma detrital zircons suggesting a source in the Central Tianshan (Fig. 2a, c, e, 3c).

ARCHIPELAGIC ARCHITECTURE OF THE WESTERN ALTAIDS The new ocean evolved to form Late Paleozoic intra-oceanic subduction systems   
with a continental arc in an overall archipelago configuration. The ocean subducted   
southwards to generate the Chinese North Tianshan accretionary complex (Xu et al.,   
2006) and the long-lived Central Tianshan continental arc (Fig. 3d). A double-vergent subduction system developed in SW Junggar (Zhang et al., 2011).   
Southward subduction generated an intra-oceanic arc at Guai 10 (Fig. 1b) in the NW   
Junggar Basin and an accretionary complex containing Carboniferous turbidites and the   
Baijiantan-Baikouquan ophiolites (Figs. 1b, 3d). Northward subduction resulted in   
formation of the Mt. Xiemisitai-Mayile-Barleik magmatic arc and an accretionary   
wedge including the Darbut ophiolite (Figs. 1b, 3d). The young ridge subducted (Fig.   
3d) to generate the Baogutu adakites and high-Mg# sanukitoids and the Miaoergou   
charnockite (Zhang et al., 2011). In NW Junggar, the Paleo-Asian Ocean subducted northward to form a Late   
Paleozoic accretionary complex that includes Carboniferous trench sandstones   
juxtaposed with the Ordovician Kujibai ophiolite (Fig. 3d) (Chen et al., 2017). Our new model suggests that such an archipelagic architecture in the western   
Altaids evolved as a consequence of sub-parallel ridge subduction. This type of   
subduction mechanism and subsequent evolution leads to a complex rifting and

amalgamation. The recognition of double magmatic belts provides a means of tracking such a complex history in orogenic belts.

# IMPLICATIONS

Sub-parallel ridge-trench interactions characterize modern subduction zones, so such interactions would be expected in the formation of some ancient orogenic belts such as western Altaids. It is noteworthy that a spreading ridge can undergo multiple episodes of subduction, resulting in generation of an archipelagic framework.

# ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

We thank the referees for helpful reviews. This work has been supported by the National Key R & D Program of China (2017YFC0601206), the Strategic Priority Research Program (B) of CAS (XDB18030103， XDB18020203)， and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (41472208).

# REFERENCESCITED

Calmus, T., Pallares, C., Maury, R. C., Aguillon-Robles, A., Bellon, H., Benoit, M., and Michaud,F., 2011, Volcanic Markers of the Post-Subduction Evolution of Baja California and Sonora, Mexico: Slab Tearing Versus Lithospheric Rupture of the Gulf of California: Pure and Applied Geophysics, v. 168, no. 8, p. 1303-1330.   
Chen, J.F., Han, B.F., Ji,J. Q., Zhang,L., Xu, Z., He, G. Q.,and Wang, T.,2010, Zircon U-Pb ages and tectonic implications of Paleozoic plutons in northern West Junggar, North Xinjiang, China: Lithos, v. 115, no. 1-4, p. 137-152.   
Chen, Y. C., Xiao, W. J., Windley, B.F., Zhang, J.E., Zhou, K.F., and Sang,M., 2017, Structures and detrital zircon ages of the Devonian-Permian Tarbagatay

accretionary complex in west Junggar, China: imbricated ocean plate stratigraphy and implications for amalgamation of the CAOB: International Geology Review, v. 59, no. 9, p. 1097-1115.

Choulet, F., Chen, Y., Wang, B., Faure, M., Cluzel, D., Charvet, J., Lin, W., and Xu, B., 2011，Late Paleozoic paleogeographic reconstruction of Western Central Asia based upon paleomagnetic data and its geodynamic implications: Journal of Asian Earth Sciences, v. 42, no. 5, p. 867-884.   
Gong,Y. M.， and Zong,R. W.， 2015,Paleozoic stratigraphic regionalization and paleogeographic evolution in Western Junggar, Northwestern China: Earth Science, v. 40, no.3,p. 461-484 (in Chinese with English abstract).   
Li, J. Y., He, G. Q., Xu, X., Li, H. Q., Sun, G. H., Yang, T. N., Gao, L. M., and Zhu, Z. X., 2006, Crustal tectonic framework of Northern Xinjiang and adjacent regions and its formation: Acta Geologica Sinica, v. 80, no. 1, p. 148-168 (in Chinese with English abstract).   
Liu,B.,Han, B. F., Chen,J. F., Ren, R., Zheng, B., Wang, Z. Z., and Feng,L. X., 2017, Closure Time of the Junggar-Balkhash Ocean: Constraints From Late Paleozoic Volcano-Sedimentary Sequences in the Barleik Mountains, West Junggar, NW China: Tectonics, v. 36, no.12, p. 2823-2845.   
Michaud, F., Royer, J. Y., Bourgois, J., Dyment, J., Calmus, T., Bandy, W., Sosson, M., Mortera-Gutiérrez, C.， Sichler, B., Rebolledo-Viera,M., and Pontoise,B., 2006, Oceanic-ridge subduction vs. slab break of: Plate tectonic evolution along the Baja California Sur continental margin since 15 Ma: Geology, v. 34, no.1, p. 13-16.   
Paulssen, H.,and de Vos,D.,2O17, Slab remnants beneath the Baja California peninsula: Seismic constraints and tectonic implications: Tectonophysics, v. 719-720, p. 27- 36.   
Sisson, V. B., Ravlis,T.L., Roeske, S. M.,and Thorkelson, D. J., 2003, Introduction: An overview of ridge-trench interactions in modern and ancient setings, in Sisson, V. B., Roeske, S. M., and Pavlis, T. L., eds., Geology of a transpressional orogen developed during ridge-trench interaction along the North Pacific margin: Boulder, Colorado, GSA Special Paper, 371, p. 1-18.   
Thorkelson, D. J., Madsen, J. K., and Sluggett, C. L., 2011, Mantle flow through the Northern Cordilleran slab window revealed by volcanic geochemistry: Geology, v. 39, no. 3, p. 267-270.   
van Wijk, J. W., Govers, R.， and Furlong, K. P., 20O1， Three-dimensional thermal modeling of the California upper mantle: a slab window vs. stalled slab: Earth and Planetary Science Lettrs, v. 186, no. 2, p. 175-186.   
Wang,B., Jahn,B.M., Shu,L. S.,Li,K. S., Chung, S.L., and Liu,D.Y., 2012, MiddleLate Ordovician arc-type plutonism in the NW Chinese Tianshan: Implication for the accretion of the Kazakhstan continent in Central Asia: Journal of Asian Earth Sciences, v. 49, no. 0, p. 40-53.   
Windley, B.F., Alexeiev, D., Xiao, W. J., Kroner,A., and Badarch, G., 2007, Tectonic models for accretion of the Central Asian Orogenic belt: Journal of the Geological Society, London, v. 164, p. 31-47.   
Xiao, W., Windley, B.F., Sun, S.,Li, J.,Huang,B., Han, C., Yuan, C., Sun, M.,and

Chen,H., 2015,A Tale of Amalgamation of Three Permo-Triassic Collage Systems in Central Asia: Oroclines, Sutures, and Terminal Accretion: Annual Review of Earth and Planetary Sciences, v. 43, no.1, p. 477-507.

Xu, X. Y., Li, X. M., Ma, Z. P., Xia, L. Q., Xia, Z. C., and Peng, S. X.,2006,LA-ICPMS zircon U-Pb dating of gabbro from the Bayingou ophiolite in the Northern Tianshan Mountains: Acta Geologica Sinica, v. 80, no. 8, p. 1168-1176 (in Chinese with English abstract).   
Yin, J. Y., Chen, W., Xiao, W. J., Yuan, C., Windley, B. F., Yu, S., and Cai, K. D., 2017, Late Silurian-early Devonian adakitic granodiorite, A-type and I-type granites in NW Junggar, NW China: Partial melting of mafic lower crust and implications for slab roll-back: Gondwana Research, v. 43, p. 55-73.   
Zhang, J. E., Xiao, W. J., Han, C. M., Ao, S. J., Yuan, C., Sun, M., Geng, H. Y., Zhao, G. C., Guo, Q. Q.,and Ma, C., 2011, Kinematics and age constraints of deformation in a Late Carboniferous accretionary complex in Western Junggar, NW China: Gondwana Research, v. 19, no. 4, p. 958-974.   
Zhang, J. E., Xiao, W. J., Luo, J., Chen, Y. C., Windley, B.F., Song, D. F., Han, C. M., and Safonova, I., 2018, Collision of the Tacheng block with the Mayile-BarleikTangbale accretionary complex in Western Junggar, NW China: Implication for Early-Middle Paleozoic architecture of the western Altaids: Journal of Asian Earth Sciences, v. 159, p. 259-278.

# FIGURECAPTIONS

showing spatial relationships of the main orogenic components, including 380-446 Ma double magmatic belts, separated by 325-414 Ma oceanic crust, intruded into an EarlyMiddle Paleozoic accretionary complex in SW Junggar and a magmatic arc in the Central Tianshan. See Figure DRl for further details. (b) Inserted schematic map of East Asia showing the location of the Altaids (Xiao et al., 2015).

Figure 2 Time-stratigraphic relationships between ophiolites， magmatism，HP metamorphism, and detrital zircons in sedimentary rocks in SW Junggar (a-c), NW Junggar (d) and the Chinese North-Central Tianshan (e-f). Note the development of 380-446 Ma double magmatic belts,which are older than 325-414 Ma ophiolites in the SW Junggar and Chinese North Tianshan (a, e). Detrital zircons of Precambrian and 446-479, 349-380 Ma, which are magmatic gaps in the SW Junggar (a), are dated in Silurian-Devonian (b) and Carboniferous (c) strata. The source of these clasts is in the Central Tianshan (e-f). Light green bars and dark green graphs in b,c,f present detrital zircons of 300-550 and 550-3500 Ma, respectively.

Figure 3 Four diagrams illustrating the tectonic crustal evolution in the West Junggar and Chinese North-Central Tianshan, showing the progressive development of Early Paleozoic subduction zone, Middle Paleozoic sub-parallel ridge-trench interaction, and a final Late Paleozoic archipelagic framework by 349-316 Ma. Acronyms are defined in Fig. 1. Further discussion in the text.

ueeeo a 80°E AC: C; oph: O KJB NWJunggar Mt. Saur HG a口 Altaids Pifieee N.94 boundary: NW/SW Junggar TC XMS 好心 ma: 380-446 Ma ma: 300-349 Ma 子 心 AC: E3-D1; 0ph: 472-531 Ma 2 AF K N.94 e AC: C; oph: 379-414 Ma b BJT Carboniferous- BGT Devonian (C-D) Guai 10 Silurian-Ordovician TB Junggar Basin (S-O) Cambrian: E Laba Precambrian ophiolite ? Kazakhstan Sikeshu AC: C; 0ph: 325-385.7 Ma intrusive and extrusive rocks Urumqi ▲ blueschist (458-504 Ma) Yili block 6 Central ChineseN . 3 4 S-D strata with 80°E Tiansha Precambrian detrital zircons an nshan paleomagnetic declination with error range V AC: accretionary complex; ma: magmatism; oph: ophiolite 三 AF: Aibihu Fault; TC: Tacheng basin ma: 300-476.5 Ma BGT: Baogutu; BJT: Baijiantan; DB: Darbut; HG: Hongguleleng; KJB: Kujibai; MG: Miaoergou; TB: Tangbale; XMS: Mt. Xiemisitai 0 km 100 26/88E

SW Junggar NW Chinese North-Central Tianshan ophiolite Silurian-Devonian Carboniferous Junggar ophiolite sediments （ew) HP metamorphism sediments sediments ophiolite deformation/metamorphism magmatism 0 100 2000 100 200 magmatism magmatism 0 150 300 300 fossil age: fossilage: fossilage:303-316 力 L chert 300-335 2 clasticsediments 300-333 chert 316Ma:stitching 325-344   
C E 342 Sikeshu pluton 336 5 in Chinese North 357-359   
0000 M turbidite 0005353 ageber E -411-414   
S M fossil age: E chertand   
三 458 + limestone + masatitic 3300 MPPPPP0 470 145-64 Po0 50 3 1500-0 50 80   
e ← 2400-2500 Ma 50472-531 a D 3550 D 3550 □ √3200 Ma 日 0 3550   
a) Stage l:476.5-446Ma b) Stage I:446-414Ma continental arc (CA): magmatic belt: SWJ CTS: CA   
Central Tianshan (CTS) 灯 入 B Barlei N TB Barleik micro- S   
水 S continent 0   
micro- A   
continent + subductedMOR 日 AC: SW Junggar (SWJ)) 田 oph: €-O sub-prale + serdimentaryolaws blueschist: TB,Barleik with trench inprudiamb4a-479 Ma   
c) Stage Ill:414-349 Ma metamorphism and sedimentaryclasts:FromCTStoSWJ deformation: 357-375 Ma including349-380Maclasts   
KC1S.y CTS:CA TB 减 Barleik T N Paleo-Asian trench 入 xms Ocean MOR remnantslab ① micro- A continent magmatism Devonian continental margin + (380-414 Ma) magmatic gap:349-380 Ma remnant EarlyPaleozoic AC + new ocean basin:SWJ (414-379 Ma) NorthTianshan(NTS) (386-325Ma)   
d)StageIV:349-316Ma island arc: Saur island arc: Guai 10 Future Barleik ACc: NW Jviciar Darbut Fault 山 1 + 03 入 Kujibar S BGT Q XMs 入   
micro  
continent 日 Paleo-Asian Ocean ridge subduction AC: NTS, SWJ magmas: island arc: oph: 325-414 Ma MG,BGT XMS-Barleik line young 1old Age of oceanic crust

Figure 3 Zhang et al., 2019