# A novel heterogalactan from Antrodia camphorata and antiangiogenic activity of its sulfated derivative

Yaqi Ding1,2, Danbi Tian2,\*, Kan Ding1,\*

1 Glycochemistry and Glycobiology Lab, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences, $5 5 5 \mathrm { Z u }$ Chong Zhi Road, Shanghai 201203,P.R.of China

2 Department of chemical and molecular engineering, Nanjing Tech University,30 Puzhu South Road, Nanijing 211816, P.R. of China

Abstract: Antrodia camphorata, a rare and expensive mushroom native to Taiwan has been considered to own diverse medicinal benefits.To obtain the homogeneous polysaccharide ACW0 and evaluate its biological functions, the lyophilized powders of A.camphorata mycelium were extracted with hot water and purified by anion exchange and gel permeation chromatography. The single symmetrical peak appeared on HPGPC indicated the homogeneous polysaccharide we have got and its molecular weight was also estimated to be $1 4 . 5 \mathrm { { k D a } }$ . Based on monosaccharide composition by GC，ACWO predominantly contained galactose $( 9 4 . 9 8 \% )$ ，traces of mannose $( 2 . 4 1 \% )$ ,and fucose $( 2 . 6 1 \% )$ . The polysaccharide was shown to be a mannofucogalactan with a backbone chain of a-D-1,6-linked Gal, nonreducing terminal a-D-Man and a-L-Fuc substituted at O-2 for nearly every six a-D-1,6-linked Gal. The bioactivity study indicated that the native polysaccharide ACWo had no inhibition on in vitro matrigel tube formation, thereby ACWo was sulfated, designated as ACWo-Sul, to change its chemical structure. The degree of sulfation was calculated to be 2.43,suggesting that almost every sugar residue was fully sulfated and sulfation position was also determined by the obvious change of chemical shifts in the $^ { 1 3 } \mathrm { C }$ NMR spectrum. We find that C-2, C-3 and C-4 of 1,6-linked Gal, C-3 and C-4 of 1,2,6-linked Gal were sulfated. However， the peaks of terminal Man and Fuc disappeared， which possibly indicated the degradation of them during sulfation. Most importantly, the sulfate derivative ACWO-Sul could disrupt tube formation and inhibit the migration of human microvascular endothelial cells (HMEC-1) dose-dependently. Besides, phosphorylation of ErK and FAK were also significantly inhibited by ACWo-Sul. These results suggested that introduction of sulfate group could enhance the bioactivity of polysaccharide from A. Camphorata and its sulfate derivative could be a potent antiangiogenic inhibitor for anti-cancer therapy.

作者简介：丁亚琦，1991年12月生，博士研究生，南京工业大学，348191810@qq.com。