# Prevent culture-driven invasive species spread

Xiong Li1.2\*\*， Supriyo Basak2 3, Rui Zhou4, Wei-zhe Zhang5, Yao $\mathrm { F u } ^ { 3 }$ , Xin-mao Zhou4, Chao $\mathrm { \ s h i ^ { \mathrm { 1 } } }$ ,Hou-cheng ${ \mathrm { X i } } ^ { 6 }$ , Yong-ping Yang1.2\* 1Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 6502O1, China ²China Germplasm Bank of Wild Species, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences,Kunming 650201, China 3Department of Economic Plants and Biotechnology, Yunnan Key Laboratory for Wild Plant Resources, Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, China 4Institute of Ecology and Geobotany, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, China 5Fairy Lake Botanical Garden, Shenzhen & Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen 518004, China Gardening and Horticulture Department, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xishuangbanna 6663O3, China \*Correspondence to: X. Li, E-mail: lixiong@ mail.kib.ac.cn; Y. P. Yang, E-mail: yangyp@ mail.kib.ac.cn

Biological invasions are known to threaten global biodiversity, economies,and human health (1,2). Nevertheless,human activities have greatly contributed to biological invasion processes (3).   
In some cases, the regional culture (e.g., religion, food,and/or tourism culture) plays a driving role in the spread of invasive species. For example, the alien plant Cosmos bipinnatus is often mistaken for Chinese Tibetan culture's rumored holy plant “Galsang flower”(4), which causes large-scale cultivation and establishment of natural populations of the former in and around the Tibetan Plateau, thereby   
threatening local plant populations. Each year, billions of animal and plant individuals are translocated and released into setings worldwide (partly driven by religious beliefs and/or unscientific environmentalism), resulting in massve inflow of alien species into wild populations (5). Moreover, ethnic and rural communities in some countries occasionally consume wild animals or/and plants (excluding protected species) (6, 7),and their harvesting, breeding,and trading behaviors inevitably promote further invasion of those edible invasive species (8).   
Compared with the limited availability of human resources (scientists,   
government departments, or/and commonweal organizations) for controlling invasive species, the culture-driven public's contribution to the spread of invasive species can cause incalculable ecological consequences. Thus, we must implement measures to prevent invasive species from becoming part of public culture. First, distribution ranges of alien invasive species must be promptly monitored and risk assessments made. Then, the concept of invasive species and their harmful impacts can be publicized through popular media (e.g., via social media, news websites,and TV ads) and governments can publicize on billboards areas within the ranges of invasive species. Additionally, scientists can help abbots,imams,and priests to learn and then disseminate relevant biological knowledge to religious believers,and tour guides can be trained to disseminate invasive species information to tourists. Finally, appropriate policies or laws must restrict blind use of invasive species.   
We hope that scientists can focus on this issue before the upcoming International Day for Biological Diversity (May $2 2 ^ { \mathrm { { n d } } }$ , 2019) and discuss relevant policies and initiatives on the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in 202O in Kunming, China (9).

# References:

1．Mazza, G., Tricarico,E.,Genovesi,P.& Gherardi, F.Ethol Ecol Evol 26, 112-129 (2014).   
2. Simberloff, D. et al. Trends Ecol Evol 28, 58-66 (2013).   
3．Hulme,P.E. JAppl Ecol 46,10-18 (2009).   
4.“Galsang flower" spreads in Lijiang. Experts warn that it belongs to invasive species and may lead to ecological disasters (ThePaper.cn, 2014);   
https://www.thepaper.cn/newsDetail_forward_1273770.   
5.Laikre,L., Schwartz, M. K., Waples,R. S., Ryman, N. & Ge, M. W.G. Trend: Ecol Evol 25, 520-529 (2010).   
6.Thakur, D., Sharma, A.& Uniyal, S.K. JEthnobiol Ethnomed 13,(2017). 7．Milner-Gulland,E.J.,Bennett,E.L.&Meat, S.A.m.W.Trends Ecol Evol 18. 351-357 (2003).   
8.Nunez, M. A., Kuebbing, S., Dimarco, R.D.& Simberloff, D. Conserv Lett 5, 334-341 (2012).   
9.The Fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity will be held in Kunming (People's Government of Yunnan Province, 2019);   
http://www.yn.g0v.cn/yn_ynyw/201903/t20190301_65935.html.